# Code Examples

README as at 2020-04-20.

Any constructive comments on how to improve my skills, knowledge, or best
practice are most welcome, provided that reasoning is given. For example,
instead of saying "Do it this way", I recommend providing a bit of reasoning and
logic to accompany it, e.g. "Do it this way, because it's faster and uses less
RAM".

## Background

I typically work with R for statistics, and Python for testing at work. I have
otherwise been playing around with R for things like recording timesheets,
Python for things like implementations of the Syracuse and Euler algorithms, and
have recently been using bash for cleaning input (and providing a bit of fancy
output) for the youtube-dl program (just as a thought exercise, I guess).

### R

I started using R in the first half of 2018, when I studied MAS224
Biostatistical Methods at Murdoch University, co-ordinated by Dr. Nicola J.
Armstrong. I have been using R for most semesters since studying this unit,
including for summer scholarship projects for Murdoch University and for the
Australian Mathematical Sciences Institute. Both projects were in veterinary
biostatistics, as is a current undergraduate project. The first project was an
investigation into factors affecting survival of dogs in veterinary trauma cases
presenting to emergency and critical care, mainly in the US. The second project
was a supplementary analysis for the application of a robust parameter
estimation technique in estimating hormone levels in equine blood plasma samples
to diagnose a common degenerative disorder. The current project aims to apply
text mining techniques to a national veterinary database to monitor vaccination
scheduling for working dogs in Australia.

### Python

I began using Python in mid-2019, shortly into my employment at the Centre for
Comparative Genomics (CCG). I completed CSC2410 Computational Thinking with
Python at the University of Southern Queensland, via online study, in the second
semester of 2019. Automated testing of the Rare Disease Registry Framework
primarily uses the Python packages Aloe and Selenium. I have written scripts for
automation of the Patient Reported Outcomes (PROMS) surveys, which were modified
to accept input data via CSV as requested by Lee Render (see @id2359), using the
Selenium package. I have recently been writing new features and steps for
extending current testing routines, including introducing tests for an
additional registry which was not previously covered.

### Other languages

I am definitely open to learning more programming languages, though I have not
tried lower-level languages. I have tended to stick to high-level languages. As
such, while I am still curious to learn, it will likely take me longer to get
the hang of, say, C or Fortran.

### Editor

I have changed editors a few times. I have worked with MATLAB, Octave, and
Jupyter Notebook when studying Mathematical Modelling. Otherwise, I have used
RStudio, Visual Studio Code, Atom, and Emacs. I like to use Emacs for most
things I'm currently doing, with the exception of R, for which I use RStudio
(mostly). I think I should learn vi, but there's quite a learning curve.

### Computational literacy

I am not a computer scientist or software engineer. I have essentially learned a
bit of programming on the fly while studying statistics and while working at the
CCG. It has definitely opened up more of an interest in the field, which I am
happy to pursue, but I wouldn't call myself a full-on software engineer.
